                              BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:


     Our per-share book value increased 14.3% during 1993. Over
the last 29 years (that is, since present management took over)
book value has grown from $19 to $8,854, or at a rate of 23.3%
compounded annually.

     During the year, Berkshire's net worth increased by $1.5
billion, a figure affected by two negative and two positive non-
operating items. For the sake of completeness, I'll explain them
here. If you aren't thrilled by accounting, however, feel free
to fast-forward through this discussion:

     1.     The first negative was produced by a change in
            Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
            having to do with the taxes we accrue against
            unrealized appreciation in the securities we
            carry at market value. The old rule said that
            the tax rate used should be the one in effect
            when the appreciation took place. Therefore,
            at the end of 1992, we were using a rate of 34%
            on the $6.4 billion of gains generated after
            1986 and 28% on the $1.2 billion of gains
            generated before that. The new rule stipulates
            that the current tax rate should be applied to
            all gains. The rate in the first quarter of
            1993, when this rule went into effect, was 34%.
            Applying that rate to our pre-1987 gains
            reduced net worth by $70 million.

     2.     The second negative, related to the first, came
            about because the corporate tax rate was raised
            in the third quarter of 1993 to 35%. This
            change required us to make an additional charge
            of 1% against all of our unrealized gains, and
            that charge penalized net worth by $75 million.
            Oddly, GAAP required both this charge and the
            one described above to be deducted from the
            earnings we report, even though the unrealized
            appreciation that gave rise to the charges was
            never included in earnings, but rather was
            credited directly to net worth.

     3.     Another 1993 change in GAAP affects the value
            at which we carry the securities that we own.
            In recent years, both the common stocks and
            certain common-equivalent securities held by
            our insurance companies have been valued at
            market, whereas equities held by our non-
            insurance subsidiaries or by the parent company
            were carried at their aggregate cost or market,
            whichever was lower. Now GAAP says that all
            common stocks should be carried at market, a
            rule we began following in the fourth quarter
            of 1993. This change produced a gain in
            Berkshire's reported net worth of about $172
            million.

     4.     Finally, we issued some stock last year. In a
            transaction described in last year's Annual
            Report, we issued 3,944 shares in early
            January, 1993 upon the conversion of $46
            million convertible debentures that we had
            called for redemption. Additionally, we issued
            25,203 shares when we acquired Dexter Shoe, a
            purchase discussed later in this report. The
            overall result was that our shares outstanding
            increased by 29,147 and our net worth by about
            $478 million. Per-share book value also grew,
            because the shares issued in these transactions
            carried a price above their book value.

     Of course, it's per-share intrinsic value, not book value,
that counts. Book value is an accounting term that measures the
capital, including retained earnings, that has been put into a
business. Intrinsic value is a present-value estimate of the
cash that can be taken out of a business during its remaining
life. At most companies, the two values are unrelated.
Berkshire, however, is an exception: Our book value, though
significantly below our intrinsic value, serves as a useful
device for tracking that key figure. In 1993, each measure grew
by roughly 14%, advances that I would call satisfactory but
unexciting.

     These gains, however, were outstripped by a much larger gain
- 39% - in Berkshire's market price. Over time, of course,
market price and intrinsic value will arrive at about the same
destination. But in the short run the two often diverge in a
major way, a phenomenon I've discussed in the past. Two years
ago, Coca-Cola and Gillette, both large holdings of ours, enjoyed
market price increases that dramatically outpaced their earnings
gains. In the 1991 Annual Report, I said that the stocks of
these companies could not continuously overperform their
businesses.

     From 1991 to 1993, Coke and Gillette increased their annual
operating earnings per share by 38% and 37% respectively, but
their market prices moved up only 11% and 6%. In other words,
the companies overperformed their stocks, a result that no doubt
partly reflects Wall Street's new apprehension about brand names.
Whatever the reason, what will count over time is the earnings
performance of these companies. If they prosper, Berkshire will
also prosper, though not in a lock-step manner.

     Let me add a lesson from history: Coke went public in 1919
at $40 per share. By the end of 1920 the market, coldly
reevaluating Coke's future prospects, had battered the stock down
by more than 50%, to $19.50. At yearend 1993, that single share,
with dividends reinvested, was worth more than $2.1 million. As
Ben Graham said: "In the short-run, the market is a voting
machine - reflecting a voter-registration test that requires only
money, not intelligence or emotional stability - but in the long-
run, the market is a weighing machine."

     So how should Berkshire's over-performance in the market
last year be viewed? Clearly, Berkshire was selling at a higher
percentage of intrinsic value at the end of 1993 than was the
case at the beginning of the year. On the other hand, in a world
of 6% or 7% long-term interest rates, Berkshire's market price
was not inappropriate if - and you should understand that this is
a huge if - Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman, and I can
attain our long-standing goal of increasing Berkshire's per-share
intrinsic value at an average annual rate of 15%. We have not
retreated from this goal. But we again emphasize, as we have for
many years, that the growth in our capital base makes 15% an
ever-more difficult target to hit.

     What we have going for us is a growing collection of good-
sized operating businesses that possess economic characteristics
ranging from good to terrific, run by managers whose performance
ranges from terrific to terrific. You need have no worries about
this group.
     The capital-allocation work that Charlie and I do at the
parent company, using the funds that our managers deliver to us,
has a less certain outcome: It is not easy to find new
businesses and managers comparable to those we have. Despite
that difficulty, Charlie and I relish the search, and we are
happy to report an important success in 1993.

Dexter Shoe

     What we did last year was build on our 1991 purchase of H.
H. Brown, a superbly-run manufacturer of work shoes, boots and
other footwear. Brown has been a real winner: Though we had
high hopes to begin with, these expectations have been
considerably exceeded thanks to Frank Rooney, Jim Issler and the
talented managers who work with them. Because of our confidence
in Frank's team, we next acquired Lowell Shoe, at the end of
1992. Lowell was a long-established manufacturer of women's and
nurses' shoes, but its business needed some fixing. Again,
results have surpassed our expectations. So we promptly jumped
at the chance last year to acquire Dexter Shoe of Dexter, Maine,
which manufactures popular-priced men's and women's shoes.
Dexter, I can assure you, needs no fixing: It is one of the
best-managed companies Charlie and I have seen in our business
lifetimes.

     Harold Alfond, who started working in a shoe factory at 25
cents an hour when he was 20, founded Dexter in 1956 with $10,000
of capital. He was joined in 1958 by Peter Lunder, his nephew.
The two of them have since built a business that now produces over
7.5 million pairs of shoes annually, most of them made in Maine
and the balance in Puerto Rico. As you probably know, the
domestic shoe industry is generally thought to be unable to
compete with imports from low-wage countries. But someone forgot
to tell this to the ingenious managements of Dexter and H. H.
Brown and to their skilled labor forces, which together make the
U.S. plants of both companies highly competitive against all
comers.

     Dexter's business includes 77 retail outlets, located
primarily in the Northeast. The company is also a major
manufacturer of golf shoes, producing about 15% of U.S. output.
Its bread and butter, though, is the manufacture of traditional
shoes for traditional retailers, a job at which it excels: Last
year both Nordstrom and J.C. Penney bestowed special awards upon
Dexter for its performance as a supplier during 1992.

     Our 1993 results include Dexter only from our date of
merger, November 7th. In 1994, we expect Berkshire's shoe
operations to have more than $550 million in sales, and we would
not be surprised if the combined pre-tax earnings of these
businesses topped $85 million. Five years ago we had no thought
of getting into shoes. Now we have 7,200 employees in that
industry, and I sing "There's No Business Like Shoe Business" as
I drive to work. So much for strategic plans.

     At Berkshire, we have no view of the future that dictates
what businesses or industries we will enter. Indeed, we think
it's usually poison for a corporate giant's shareholders if it
embarks upon new ventures pursuant to some grand vision. We
prefer instead to focus on the economic characteristics of
businesses that we wish to own and the personal characteristics
of managers with whom we wish to associate - and then to hope we
get lucky in finding the two in combination. At Dexter, we did.

                   * * * * * * * * * * * *

     And now we pause for a short commercial: Though they owned
a business jewel, we believe that Harold and Peter (who were not
interested in cash) made a sound decision in exchanging their
Dexter stock for shares of Berkshire. What they did, in effect,
was trade a 100% interest in a single terrific business for a
smaller interest in a large group of terrific businesses. They
incurred no tax on this exchange and now own a security that can
be easily used for charitable or personal gifts, or that can be
converted to cash in amounts, and at times, of their own
choosing. Should members of their families desire to, they can
pursue varying financial paths without running into the
complications that often arise when assets are concentrated in a
private business.

     For tax and other reasons, private companies also often find
it difficult to diversify outside their industries. Berkshire,
in contrast, can diversify with ease. So in shifting their
ownership to Berkshire, Dexter's shareholders solved a
reinvestment problem. Moreover, though Harold and Peter now have
non-controlling shares in Berkshire, rather than controlling
shares in Dexter, they know they will be treated as partners and
that we will follow owner-oriented practices. If they elect to
retain their Berkshire shares, their investment result from the
merger date forward will exactly parallel my own result. Since I
have a huge percentage of my net worth committed for life to
Berkshire shares - and since the company will issue me neither
restricted shares nor stock options - my gain-loss equation will
always match that of all other owners.

     Additionally, Harold and Peter know that at Berkshire we can
keep our promises: There will be no changes of control or
culture at Berkshire for many decades to come. Finally, and of
paramount importance, Harold and Peter can be sure that they will
get to run their business - an activity they dearly love -
exactly as they did before the merger. At Berkshire, we do not
tell .400 hitters how to swing.

     What made sense for Harold and Peter probably makes sense
for a few other owners of large private businesses. So, if you
have a business that might fit, let me hear from you. Our
acquisition criteria are set forth in the appendix on page 22.

Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table below shows the major sources of Berkshire's
reported earnings. In this presentation, amortization of
Goodwill and other major purchase-price accounting adjustments
are not charged against the specific businesses to which they
apply, but are instead aggregated and shown separately. This
procedure lets you view the earnings of our businesses as they
would have been reported had we not purchased them. I've
explained in past reports why this form of presentation seems to
us to be more useful to investors and managers than one utilizing
GAAP, which requires purchase-price adjustments to be made on a
business-by-business basis. The total net earnings we show in
the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP total in our
audited financial statements.

                                                 (000s omitted)
                                   ------------------------------------------
                                                            Berkshire's Share
                                                             of Net Earnings
                                                            (after taxes and
                                      Pre-Tax Earnings     minority interests)
                                   ---------------------- ------------------
                                      1993        1992       1993       1992
                                   ---------- ---------- -------- --------

Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ...............    $ 30,876   $(108,961)   $ 20,156   $(71,141)
  Net Investment Income ......   375,946   355,067   321,321   305,763
H. H. Brown, Lowell,
    and Dexter ...............   44,025*    27,883   28,829     17,340
Buffalo News .................   50,962     47,863   29,696     28,163
Commercial & Consumer Finance    22,695     19,836   14,161     12,664
Fechheimer ...................   13,442     13,698    6,931      7,267
Kirby
