                              BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:


     Our gain in net worth during 1995 was $5.3 billion, or
45.0%. Per-share book value grew by a little less, 43.1%,
because we paid stock for two acquisitions, increasing our shares
outstanding by 1.3%. Over the last 31 years (that is, since
present management took over) per-share book value has grown from
$19 to $14,426, or at a rate of 23.6% compounded annually.

     There's no reason to do handsprings over 1995's gains. This
was a year in which any fool could make a bundle in the stock
market. And we did. To paraphrase President Kennedy, a rising
tide lifts all yachts.

     Putting aside the financial results, there was plenty of
good news at Berkshire last year: We negotiated three
acquisitions of exactly the type we desire. Two of these,
Helzberg's Diamond Shops and R.C. Willey Home Furnishings, are
included in our 1995 financial statements, while our largest
transaction, the purchase of GEICO, closed immediately after the
end of the year. (I'll tell you more about all three
acquisitions later in the report.)

     These new subsidiaries roughly double our revenues. Even
so, the acquisitions neither materially increased our shares
outstanding nor our debt. And, though these three operations
employ over 11,000 people, our headquarters staff grew only from
11 to 12. (No sense going crazy.)

     Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman and my partner,
and I want to build a collection of companies - both wholly- and
partly-owned - that have excellent economic characteristics and
that are run by outstanding managers. Our favorite acquisition
is the negotiated transaction that allows us to purchase 100% of
such a business at a fair price. But we are almost as happy when
the stock market offers us the chance to buy a modest percentage
of an outstanding business at a pro-rata price well below what it
would take to buy 100%. This double-barrelled approach -
purchases of entire businesses through negotiation or purchases
of part-interests through the stock market - gives us an
important advantage over capital-allocators who stick to a single
course. Woody Allen once explained why eclecticism works: "The
real advantage of being bisexual is that it doubles your chances
for a date on Saturday night."

     Over the years, we've been Woody-like in our thinking,
attempting to increase our marketable investments in wonderful
businesses, while simultaneously trying to buy similar businesses
in their entirety. The following table illustrates our progress
on both fronts. In the tabulation, we show the marketable
securities owned per share of Berkshire at ten-year intervals. A
second column lists our per-share operating earnings (before
taxes and purchase-price adjustments but after interest and
corporate overhead) from all other activities. In other words,
the second column shows what we earned excluding the dividends,
interest and capital gains that we realized from investments.
Purchase-price accounting adjustments are ignored for reasons we
have explained at length in previous reports and which, as an act
of mercy, we won't repeat. (We'll be glad to send masochists the
earlier explanations, however.)

                                               Pre-tax Earnings Per Share
                       Marketable Securities   Excluding All Income from
 Year                        Per Share                Investments
 ----                  ---------------------   --------------------------

 1965 ................         $        4               $  4.08
 1975 ................                159                 (6.48)
 1985 ................              2,443                 18.86
 1995 ................             22,088                258.20

 Yearly Growth Rate: 1965-95       33.4%                    14.7%

     These results have not sprung from some master plan that we
concocted in 1965. In a general way, we knew then what we hoped
to accomplish but had no idea what specific opportunities might
make it possible. Today we remain similarly unstructured: Over
time, we expect to improve the figures in both columns but have
no road map to tell us how that will come about.

     We proceed with two advantages: First, our operating
managers are outstanding and, in most cases, have an unusually
strong attachment to Berkshire. Second, Charlie and I have had
considerable experience in allocating capital and try to go at
that job rationally and objectively. The giant disadvantage we
face is size: In the early years, we needed only good ideas, but
now we need good big ideas. Unfortunately, the difficulty of
finding these grows in direct proportion to our financial
success, a problem that increasingly erodes our strengths.

     I will have more to say about Berkshire's prospects later in
this report, when I discuss our proposed recapitalization.

Acquisitions

     It may seem strange that we exult over a year in which we
made three acquisitions, given that we have regularly used these
pages to question the acquisition activities of most managers.
Rest assured, Charlie and I haven't lost our skepticism: We
believe most deals do damage to the shareholders of the acquiring
company. Too often, the words from HMS Pinafore apply: "Things
are seldom what they seem, skim milk masquerades as cream."
Specifically, sellers and their representatives invariably
present financial projections having more entertainment value
than educational value. In the production of rosy scenarios,
Wall Street can hold its own against Washington.

     In any case, why potential buyers even look at projections
prepared by sellers baffles me. Charlie and I never give them a
glance, but instead keep in mind the story of the man with an
ailing horse. Visiting the vet, he said: "Can you help me?
Sometimes my horse walks just fine and sometimes he limps." The
vet's reply was pointed: "No problem - when he's walking fine,
sell him." In the world of mergers and acquisitions, that horse
would be peddled as Secretariat.

     At Berkshire, we have all the difficulties in perceiving the
future that other acquisition-minded companies do. Like they
also, we face the inherent problem that the seller of a business
practically always knows far more about it than the buyer and
also picks the time of sale - a time when the business is likely
to be walking "just fine."

     Even so, we do have a few advantages, perhaps the greatest
being that we don't have a strategic plan. Thus we feel no need
to proceed in an ordained direction (a course leading almost
invariably to silly purchase prices) but can instead simply
decide what makes sense for our owners. In doing that, we always
mentally compare any move we are contemplating with dozens of
other opportunities open to us, including the purchase of small
pieces of the best businesses in the world via the stock market.
Our practice of making this comparison - acquisitions against
passive investments - is a discipline that managers focused
simply on expansion seldom use.

     Talking to Time Magazine a few years back, Peter Drucker got
to the heart of things: "I will tell you a secret: Dealmaking
beats working. Dealmaking is exciting and fun, and working is
grubby. Running anything is primarily an enormous amount of
grubby detail work . . . dealmaking is romantic, sexy. That's
why you have deals that make no sense."

     In making acquisitions, we have a further advantage: As
payment, we can offer sellers a stock backed by an extraordinary
collection of outstanding businesses. An individual or a family
wishing to dispose of a single fine business, but also wishing to
defer personal taxes indefinitely, is apt to find Berkshire stock
a particularly comfortable holding. I believe, in fact, that
this calculus played an important part in the two acquisitions
for which we paid shares in 1995.

     Beyond that, sellers sometimes care about placing their
companies in a corporate home that will both endure and provide
pleasant, productive working conditions for their managers. Here
again, Berkshire offers something special. Our managers operate
with extraordinary autonomy. Additionally, our ownership
structure enables sellers to know that when I say we are buying
to keep, the promise means something. For our part, we like
dealing with owners who care what happens to their companies and
people. A buyer is likely to find fewer unpleasant surprises
dealing with that type of seller than with one simply auctioning
off his business.

     In addition to the foregoing being an explanation of our
acquisition style, it is, of course, a not-so-subtle sales pitch.
If you own or represent a business earning $25 million or more
before tax, and it fits the criteria listed on page 23, just
give me a call. Our discussion will be confidential. And if you
aren't interested now, file our proposition in the back of your
mind: We are never going to lose our appetite for buying
companies with good economics and excellent management.

     Concluding this little dissertation on acquisitions, I can't
resist repeating a tale told me last year by a corporate
executive. The business he grew up in was a fine one, with a
long-time record of leadership in its industry. Its main
product, however, was distressingly glamorless. So several
decades ago, the company hired a management consultant who -
naturally - advised diversification, the then-current fad.
("Focus" was not yet in style.) Before long, the company
acquired a number of businesses, each after the consulting firm
had gone through a long - and expensive - acquisition study. And
the outcome? Said the executive sadly, "When we started, we were
getting 100% of our earnings from the original business. After
ten years, we were getting 150%."

Helzberg's Diamond Shops

     A few years back, management consultants popularized a
technique called "management by walking around" (MBWA). At
Berkshire, we've instituted ABWA (acquisitions by walking
around).

     In May 1994, a week or so after the Annual Meeting, I was
crossing the street at 58th and Fifth Avenue in New York, when a
woman called out my name. I listened as she told me she'd been
to, and had enjoyed, the Annual Meeting. A few seconds later, a
man who'd heard the woman stop me did so as well. He turned out
to be Barnett Helzberg, Jr., who owned four shares of Berkshire
and had also been at our meeting.
     In our few minutes of conversation, Barnett said he had a
business we might be interested in. When people say that, it
usually turns out they have a lemonade stand - with potential, of
course, to quickly grow into the next Microsoft. So I simply
asked Barnett to send me particulars. That, I thought to myself.
will be the end of that.

     Not long after, Barnett sent me the financial statements of
Helzberg's Diamond Shops. The company had been started by his
grandfather in 1915 from a single store in Kansas City and had
developed by the time we met into a group with 134 stores in 23
states. Sales had grown from $10 million in 1974 to $53 million
in 1984 and $282 million in 1994. We weren't talking lemonade
stands.

     Barnett, then 60, loved the business but also wanted to feel
free of it. In 1988, as a step in that direction, he had brought
in Jeff Comment, formerly President of Wanamaker's, to help him
run things. The hiring of Jeff turned out to be a homerun, but
Barnett still found that he couldn't shake a feeling of ultimate
responsibility. Additionally, he owned a valuable asset that was
subject to the vagaries of a single, very competitive industry,
and he thought it prudent to diversify his family's holdings.

     Berkshire was made to order for him. It took us awhile to
get together on price, but there was never any question in my
mind that, first, Helzberg's was the kind of business that we
wanted to own and, second, Jeff was our kind of manager. In
fact, we would not have bought the business if Jeff had not been
there to run it. Buying a retailer without good management is
like buying the Eiffel Tower without an elevator.

     We completed the Helzberg purchase in 1995 by means of a
tax-free exchange of stock, the only kind of transaction that
interested Barnett. Though he was certainly under no obligation
to do so, Barnett shared a meaningful part of his proceeds from
the sale with a large number of his associates. When someone
behaves that generously, you know you are going to be treated
right as a buyer.

     The average Helzberg's store has annual sales of about $2
million, far more than competitors operating similarly-sized
stores achieve. This superior per-store productivity is the key
to Helzberg's excellent profits. If the company continues its
first-rate performance - and we believe it will - it could grow
rather quickly to several times its present size.

     Helzberg's, it should be added, is an entirely different
sort of operation from Borsheim's, our Omaha jewelry business,
and the two companies will operate independently of each other.
Borsheim's had an excellent year in 1995, with sales up 11.7%.
Susan Jacques, its 36-year-old CEO, had an even better year,
giving birth to her second son at the start of the Christmas
season. Susan has proved to be a terrific leader in the two
years since her promotion.

R.C. Willey Home Furnishings

     It was Nebraska Furniture Mart's Irv Blumkin who did the
walking around in the case of R.C. Willey, long the leading home
furnishings business in Utah. Over the years, Irv had told me
about the strengths of that company. And he had also told Bill
Child, CEO of R.C. Willey, how pleased the Blumkin family had
been with its Berkshire relationship. So in early 1995, Bill
mentioned to Irv that for estate tax and diversification reasons,
he and the other owners of R.C. Willey might be interested in
selling.

     From that point forward, things could not have been simpler.
Bill sent me some figures, and I wrote him a letter indicating
my idea of value. We quickly agreed on a number, and found our
personal chemistry to be perfect. By mid-year, the merger was
completed.

     R.C. Willey is an amazing story. Bill took over the
business from his father-in-law in 1954 when sales were about
$250,000. From this tiny base, Bill employed Mae West's
philosophy: "It's not what you've got - it's what you do with
what you've got." Aided by his brother, Sheldon, Bill has built
the company to its 1995 sales volume of $257 million, and it now
accounts for over 50% of the furniture business in Utah. Like
Nebraska Furnitur
